okay looks like it's going now recording
has started
so how do I know how do I know when will
I be able to hear John okay but how do I
know when to start hello Jeff Morley
here talking to you from Washington DC
pleasure to be with this group and
talking about this subject I want to
give my thanks to John who I ran into in
the Starbucks on Capitol Hill a couple
weeks ago and he reminded me of the
importance of talking about this subject
and invited me to be here so thanks to
John I gotta say you know the JFK is
very difficult this is a very difficult
subject that's irritating it's confusing
it's controversial and so I've never
found any subject more difficult right
about in my journalistic career so
tonight I want to talk about that the
difficulty of this subject and also
about new evidence in the case and what
my own research and my own thinking
about it what what has what has come to
me over the past year or two as I've
continued to work on the subject and to
try and figure out how to better get
through the confusion and the
controversy that still surrounds this
subject and to be able to talk about it
in a way that everybody can understand
and accept but first I want to say I've
been at this a while
I realized that the first article that I
edited about the JFK story was 28 years
ago it's kind of scary to think about
that so I've been added a while I've
thought about it a long time I've
written a book about it well actually my
book here's my book our man in Mexico is
actually not about the JFK assassination
in fact it's agnostic on the
assassination it doesn't attempt to
answer the question of who was
responsible for the assassination
instead of doing that I decided early on
when I was writing our man in Mexico
that I would focus on something
different not to solve the assassination
to resolve the question of who is
responsible but rather I had a more
modest goal which was to describe how
the assassination looked through the
eyes of a senior CIA official Winston
Scott the chief of the Mexico City
Station a trusted CIA insider a loyalist
the distinguished intelligence officer
who was responsible for the surveillance
of the Cuban and Soviet embassies at the
time that Lee Harvey Oswald visited
there in October 1963 so our man in
Mexico tells the story of what this
crime looked like through the eyes of
winds God and for anybody who's
interested in the assassination I can
recommend it I'm biased of course but I
think that it presents an unusually
lucid view of what the assassination
looked like in the eyes of people inside
the CIA and I think that's an important
perspective it's an important objective
perspective for anybody was trying to
understand the assassination there's a
lot of compromised views but I think
that the perspective of somebody like
Wynn Scott is important in understanding
what happened the book I should say is
also available in Spanish nuestro
nuestra one buddy and Mako so you can
give that to your spanish-speaking
friends as well who are interested in
the assassination if you're interested
in what I've written about the
assassination you can look at some of my
articles on Jefferson Morley comm click
on the articles tab and there's a list
of my JFK reporting over the years so
you can look at some articles there you
can also find me on Facebook I'm glad to
talk about JFK with anybody who's on
Facebook I'd be glad to be your friend
about that so with that introduction I
want to now move into my presentation
I should say ahead of time I think some
of you will find that it is perhaps
unduly cautious I'm not somebody who
comes to you and says I know who killed
JFK I have rather more modest aims I
want people to understand what the new
historical record of the assassination
is what the latest records show and in
particular what the role of CIA officers
in the surveillance of Lee Harvey Oswald
before the assassination was and in
particular the role of CIA officers with
responsibility for psychological warfare
I think that this these officers are a
key to understanding what happened and
why the president died when he did I
should say that my presentation is not
directed at a conspiratorial audience I
don't have a conspiratorial reading of
history I'm not a conspiracy theorist
some people talk about 9/11 9/11 was
definitely the result of the conspiracy
and we know who was responsible it was a
man named Khalid Sheikh Mohammed who was
working with Osama bin Laden but it was
primarily Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's idea
and so if we want to talk about 9/11
conspiracies I'd be glad to talk about
the role of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in
that but with that I want to turn now to
the JFK story and my presentation is
really about how I think about the JFK
assassination story and about how I
think people should think about it and
by people I mean everybody people who
agree with me people who disagree with
me people who know nothing about the
subject and people know a whole lot
about the subject I've always wanted to
reach as wide a possible an audience as
wide a possible and audience with my
journalism about JFK and so my
presentation tonight is part of that we
are now at the 48th anniversary of the
assassination of President Kennedy in
two years we will observe the 50th
anniversary and I think that that is
likely to be a moment of considerable
national introspection about this
tragedy it will also be an opportunity
to complete the historical record of the
assassination
yet I should say I think that it is
quite likely that the CIA is likely to
object to declassifying all of its
records about the crime and the tragedy
of Dallas so the question that we face
over the next two years is whether the
CIA's extreme claims of secrecy around
the JFK story which are reiterated and
will be reiterated this year by CIA
lawyers in federal court in Washington
can be overcome and I think that's the
question I think that's what I'm aiming
to do is to figure out how to complete
the record of the assassination over the
next couple of years how do we do that
well one I think we we need to start
with the some very basic facts that the
unresolved case will be assassinated
president you know never quite goes away
as some people would wish Stephen King
has a new book out about the subject
November 22nd 1963 and this is yet
another imaginative retelling of this
critical day in American history a very
densely layered epic that appeals to the
enduring impulse of Americans to
understand what happened how did it come
to pass that the president United States
was gunned down in broad daylight and no
one was ever brought to justice for it
this is the impulse that has been
articulated in other masterpieces of the
JFK stories such as Don DeLillo's Libre
and James Elroy's American tabloid this
is what sustains public interest and I
think we need to at the beginning to say
this is an enduring feature of American
culture people want to know what
happened of course the official story is
still defended by an articulate minority
that there was no conspiracy Vincent
Bugliosi I know probably not having a
lot of fans there but you know in his
critically acclaimed book - the
reclaiming history you know he restates
the official story somebody's written
and reported about the JFK story for a
long time I I just I I don't I don't
agree I think the the record of the
JFK's story as it is emerged especially
in recent years belies that claim
there's a lot of implausible JFK
assassination theories out there and the
notion that a lone nut' was responsible
is one of them I think it's more likely
the Kennedy was ambushed by his enemies
who made sure that they could not be
identified you're not gonna hear that
from Chris Matthews but that is what
Jackie Kennedy believed and that's what
Bobby Kennedy believed as David Talbot
pointed out in his 2008 book brothers
RFK never lost his conspiratorial
understanding of his brother's death and
I think that's an important thing to
understand as we look back on this event
this notion of conspiracy was one that
was held by people who were very close
to the President the closest to the
president his widow and his brother I
think that a story that I recommend to
everyone is the story that's told in the
1999 book by Alexander for senko and Tim
Naftali about the Cuban Missile Crisis
one hell of a gamble and in there they
tell the story that after the
assassination a week after the
assassination Bobby and Jackie Kennedy
sent a friend to Moscow with a message
for the leadership of the Soviet Union
and their message was that they wanted
the Soviet leadership to know that quote
and this is from for Cinco and naftali
book despite Oswald's connections to the
Communist world the Kennedys believed
that the president was felled by
domestic opponents and I can't
underscore this finding enough Bobby and
Jackie Kennedy believed that the
president was filled by domestic
opponents I was very interested in this
story and I emailed Tim Naftali who is
now the director of the Richard Nixon
Presidential Library in California and
he stood by the story and explained how
he and four Senko came by it in
considerable detail they learned the
story from a soviet diplomat named
georgie bolshakov they found a written
account of [ __ ] coughs message or
Bobby and Jackie's manic message as
reported by bullsh cough in the Soviet
archives and naftali told me I thought
it was surprising that the story didn't
get more attention certainly Bobby and
Jackie were not alone in suspecting a
conspiracy in Dallas
JFK successor Lyndon
johnson thought there had been a
conspiracy he suspected a plot emanating
from Cuba or Vietnam in Havana Fidel
Castro a man whose peaceful dotage is
proof positive that he knows something
about detecting JFK conspiracy plot
conspiracy plots concluded that JFK had
been killed by a faction within his own
government other realistic men of power
in Washington came to the same
conspiratorial conclusion Senator
Russell long Joseph Califano both
Washington power brokers par excellence
concluded that JFK had been concluded by
his enemies in other words the notion
that JFK was ambushed is not exactly
exotic nor is it a product of any
political tendency rather is a lot of
what a lot of people at the upper levels
of the American government believed at
the time since then I think it's worth
noting that there is a growing scholarly
consensus that JFK was killed by
conspiracy since 2000 I find five
tenured historians and US universities
have published scholarly studies that
address the causes of JFK's death four
out of the five concluded that there was
a conspiracy though they did not all
agree on who was responsible the most
recent scientific study of the of the
Zapruder film was published in 2009 by a
career government physicist named G Paul
Chambers I found his explication of the
scientific method quite persuasive I
think he dismantled Vincent Bugliosi
zarg Youmans and chambers concluded that
as a physicist he was virtually certain
that Kennedy was hit by a shot from in
front of his motorcade something that
conspiracy theorists have always said so
here we have the conundrum of JFK's
assassination while we have a confident
minority in the opinion making class who
dismisses any consideration of
conspiracy theories saying it's a waste
of time we have a conspiracy minded
majority the general public who's left
to ponder a bewildering array of
conspiracy theories most of which are
assuredly wrong and without much
guidance about what is actually the most
plausible explanation of what happened
so I think that the
Challenge for people who are serious
about studying the assassination over
the next two years is to pierce this
confusion I know it's a very difficult
challenge it hasn't happened yet but I
think that it's possible so when I talk
to people about how can we how can we
understand the JFK story how can we get
there I recommend I have seven steps and
I'm gonna outline those seven steps for
you now um the first is if you're
looking for evidence of a JFK conspiracy
I think we have to proceed as
prosecutors and law enforcement people
do when they're looking at criminal
conspiracies and that is they start in
the middle or the bottom and they work
their way up they do not start at the
top seeking to identify the intellectual
authors of the conspiracy they start by
identifying the people who were involved
but perhaps not ultimately responsible
who are knowledgeable but not culpable
so in the case of the Kennedy
assassination I start by trying to
identify the people who were most
knowledgeable about the accused assassin
Lee Harvey Oswald before the
assassination and in particular the
people who are most knowledgeable about
him who worked for the CIA now after as
soon as I say that I want to add the
second step which is I think it's very
important that everybody understand and
respect the intense psychological
resistance to step one as I have learned
in thirty years of doing journalism
about JFK's assassination good
journalism on the subject is rarely
welcome in Washington even a
half-century after the fact people just
don't want to go there long ago some
concerned colleagues at the Washington
Post told me that my interest in JFK's
assassination was and I quote not good
for my career I must say that that
warning rather piqued my interest rather
than discouraged it yet this defensive
'no siz still the norm in JFK
assassination discussions that we see in
the in the in the media Chris Matthews
who I regard as a decent spokesman for
liberal cause
gets agitated the very suggestion that a
serious person might disagree with the
official story Cass Sunstein and
otherwise sane senior adviser to
President Obama's proposed the
government actually infiltrate JFK
conspiracy chat groups to dispel the
allegedly dangerous and delusional ideas
that are discussed there I wouldn't say
that this vehement is proof of denial
but I would say that JFK avoidance is
endemic in Washington the washington
press corps recently bill keller the
former editor of the new york times
admitted that he deletes all emails on
the subject of JFK's assassination
without reading them while offhandedly
admitting that there always was
something suspicious about that one
that's the mentality that people were
interested in the assassination are up
against there's a kind of willful
avoidance of the subject and an intense
defensive miss a third the third step
that I think is important for anybody is
focuses on what I think is probably the
most significant new body of records
that has emerged after the JFK Records
Act in the 1990s and that is the
operation the the papers involving
operation Northwoods
I'm sure a lot of you are familiar with
the Northwoods papers but I think that
it's really worth repeating what's
important about the Northwoods papers
the northwich papers are not a smoking
gun of you know the proverbial smoking
gun that some people demand about the
assassination but they do confirm and
they do prove a certain conspiratorial
mindset that was pervasive in the upper
levels of the u.s. national security
agencies in 1963 the Northwoods
documents show that US military planners
had developed a uniquely devious
approach to advancing a policy of regime
change in Cuba the Northwoods concept
which James Bamford Riley described his
treasonous called for us operatives to
mount intelligence to mount terrorist
actions on US soil that could then be
blamed on the Castro government by
portraying Cuba as an irresponsible
actor the US could justify an invasion
something that the Joint Chiefs of Staff
unanimously favored in 1963 so it is
true as anti conspiratorial commentators
note that JFK emphatically rejected
these so-called pretext operations in
March 1962 but it is also true from the
Northwoods papers that the Northwoods
planning continued at least through the
summer of 1963
so while Oliver Stone's ungenerous
critics will never acknowledge the point
the Northwoods documents actually lend
credence to stones movie the movie of
course depicted Kennedy's death as the
work of a high-level cabal that then
sought to blame the crime on a communist
to avoid detection the Northwoods
documents which were approved by the
Northwoods operation which was approved
by the the Joint Chiefs showed that this
scenario was not the invention of a
Hollywood screenwriter the ex post facto
invention of Hollywood screenwriter it
was Pentagon policy step four in
understanding the JFK story I think is
to really come to grips with the
Declassified records that have emerged
since Stone's movies the other material
that has has become public along with
the Northwoods Papers and again I don't
think that these documents prove that
there was a conspiracy but they do prove
something else which is pretty
interesting and which we didn't we
really didn't know for certain at the
time of Stone's movie we didn't really
know for certain in in the mid-1990s and
that is that there was a group of senior
CIA officers who knew much more about
Oswald in the weeks and months before
Kennedy was killed than they ever said
publicly or than they ever said
privately that they ever told
investigators that they ever told anyone
at CIA headquarters these these people
were
we're impressive I mean they their rank
was impressive
James Angleton the chief of the agency's
counterintelligence staff his trusted
aides Jane Roman Burch O'Neill
William J hood were all knowledgeable
about Oswald all signed off on
intelligence cables about Oswald while
Kennedy was still alive Thomas care
machines the deputy director of the CIA
the time signed off on a cable about
Oswald so did John Whitin who was the
chief of the agency's Mexico desk in
Washington in Mexico City when Scott the
subject of my book was involved in the
surveillance of Oswald six weeks before
the assassination so was his deputy
David Phillips in Miami psychological
warfare specialists George Joni DS was
running Cuban agents who had been
tracking Oswald so it's quite a lot of
people who knew who I was who understood
his biography or understood his travels
his intentions his politics now I want
to say most of these officials were not
involved in an assassination conspiracy
and my research convinces of me that of
that totally certainly Jane Roman bill
hood when Scott John whitin were not
involved in a conspiracy to kill the
president about James Angleton and David
Phillips
I think there's worked out and we just
don't know what can be said with
certainty is that between August and
November of 1963 these CIA officers and
others kept track of Oswald his travels
his contacts and the all of their
reports went to were funneled to a
secretive office in the CIA in the CIA
counterintelligence staff called the
Special Investigations Group this was a
small office that was run by Burge
O'Neill Virgil Neal was an aide to
Angleton he had served as the chief of
station in Guatemala City during the CIA
sponsored coup there in 1954 David
Phillips had also worked in Guatemala
1954 so when Oswald was arrested for
shooting and killing the president
the reaction of these CIA officers
especially notable and the CIA officers
did not say that alone nut had shot the
president and wasn't that unfortunate
what they said was Oswald was linked to
Fidel Castro and that and they hid their
own knowledge of him so they hid their
interest in Oswald while seeking to
blame the crime or linked Oswald to
Fidel Castro I think that's that's not a
matter of dispute that's not a matter of
debate that's not a theory that's what
the record shows pretty clearly so with
that we come to step five and step five
is going to seem counterintuitive to a
lot of you and it is to me sometimes -
but I think it's necessary and that is
this do not jump to conspiratorial
conclusions rather I think we need to
take this evidence and apply some
empirical reasoning to it the new JFK
files by releasing all of this
information and clarifying what CIA
officials knew about Oswald in the weeks
and months before the assassination
allow us to test conspiracy theory they
don't prove a conspiracy theory they
allow us to test it and I you know I
disagree with people like Chris Matthews
about the assassination but I think that
the important thing is for us to get
this information in front of people who
disagree and test it and we can all
decide what it tells us so let's go to
the CIA records and see what they say
did these CIA officers one or more of
them either wittingly or unwittingly
participate or caused the death of the
president did they conspire in the
gunning down of the president or did
they simply misunderstand and
underestimate oswald who allegedly
killed the president for his own reasons
this is the question that the new
evidence enables us to test we which of
these two propositions is more likely is
more plausible in in light of the new
evidence so full disclosure of the CIA
records on the subject I think would
help us answer that question
unfortunately we don't
full disclosure that's the the problem
that we have right now so what did what
did the what did the the assassination
of the president looked like two people
inside the CIA I think when we look at
the new evidence this is what we need to
try and understand is not what argument
do I want to make about it because hey I
was in kindergarten when it happened I
am NOT an expert but these people were
there and they left considerable records
about what they were doing at the time
and what they thought when Scott school
teacher from rural Alabama who
transformed himself into a brilliant spy
and a power unto himself within the CIA
when in interviewing people who knew him
and looking at the records of what Scott
thought Scott knew that there was
something very wrong something had gone
very wrong with the handling of
information about Lee Harvey Oswald and
he knew because he was one of the people
who was wrong
he knew specifically and I explained
this in my book that deputy CIA director
Richard Helms had perjured himself to
the Warren Commission about the agency's
pre assassination surveillance of Oswald
Scott knew that Helms a story to the to
the Warren Commission was false and he
said so he wrote it in a book Scott also
learned that Angleton who was a longtime
friend of his had kept him out of the
loop about the latest intelligence on
Oswald in 1963 when Oswald visited
Mexico City and Scott realized this
after the assassination Scott as I shown
my book also harbored intense doubts
about his own deputy David Phillips a
man who he once admired very much
Phillips was the chief of the agency's
covert operations against the Castro
government in 1963 but after the
assassination Scott gave Phillips low
marks for his job performance and he
came to question Phillips is reporting
on Oswald as well a couple years later
when Scott aired some of his misgivings
privately to a to a colleague
a friend the head of British
intelligence in Mexico City a man named
Dempster Angleton managed to intercept
the conversation by some means and Helms
returned to Scott and privately warned
him not to talk about the assassination
to anybody that is hardly the action of
a man who is convinced of Lee Harvey
Oswald's sole guilt so in the upper
ranks of the CIA among men's like Wynn
Scott dick Helms and Jim Angleton the
question of who killed the president was
extremely sensitive and remained
extremely sensitive for years after the
president's death David Phillips another
question he was still alive when I first
arrived in Washington in the 1980s he
had retired from the CIA to found the
association of foreign intelligence
officers and to take on the agency's
many critics he was a trust fund kid a
former actor an amateur journalist he
was charming and cunning man
and a decent writer he even wrote the
occasional op-ed for the Washington Post
outlook section where I was working at
the time in the Washington elite the
notion that David Phillips might have
had something to do with JFK's death was
close to absurd David Ignatius now Post
columnist told me that he had gotten to
know Phillips he wasn't the type to be
involved in an assassination plot
against JFK Ignatius once told me that
was around 1997 and he said that a
couple years later at the National
Security Archive released the CIA
records about a notorious political
assassination in Chile in 1970 these
records showed how President Nixon and
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had
ordered the CIA to carry out an
assassination they feared leftist
revolution in Mexican Latin America and
they demanded the CIA take action to
prevent Salvador Allende democratically
elected leftist from assuming the
presidency of Chile so CIA director dick
Helms called on David Phillips and if
you want to know about how the CIA goes
about killing a political enemy you can
do worse to review the records which you
can find on the National Security
Archive website Phillips brought in a
team of assassins he armed them with
untraceable guns he talked with them
about
when to act and how they might justify
the crime the conspirators ambushed
general Rene Schneider the the officer
in question in in traffic in in Santiago
and he died day later and Phillips then
paid the killers $25,000 apiece this is
all documented on the national security
website so David Ignatius his assurances
about David Phillips suddenly seemed
less than reassuring to me perhaps it
was true that Phillips was not the type
to work straight the assassination of an
American president but he was
indisputably the type to organize the
assassination of a Chilean general and
that to me has indicated that he should
always be looked at with the closest
possible scrutiny and there was one
detail about the schneider assassination
that's stuck in my mind within hours of
the crime Phillips his agents in Chile
generated propaganda seeking to blame
the crime on the left and that is
exactly what Phillips's agencies had
done in the wake of the Kennedy
assassination in 1963
so step 7 is to return to step one when
thinking about a complex criminal
conspiracy start low or start in the
middle and work your way up thanks the
CIA records Klat Declassified since 1998
we now know much more about a key aspect
of the JFK assassination story the
agency's underappreciated role in
spreading the story that JFK had been
killed by a communist as David Phillips
mounted covert operations against Castro
government in the summer in fall of 1963
my research shows that he was assisted
by a junior officer in Miami named
George Johnny D's a dapper 40 year old
spy from New York City joining he's
handled the agency's contacts with a
network of anti-castro Cuban students
whom Phillips had recruited from the
campus of the University of Havana
before the Revolution within hours of
JFK's murders Joe and Edie's agents had
alerted reporters to the fact that
Oswald was a member of the fair play for
Cuba committee and this revelation
generated headlines across the country
generating a story that many people
still believed that JFK was killed by a
communist the JFK story hidden by the
the Johnny D story which was hidden by
the CIA for 35 years does not prove that
Joey Diaz was a co-conspirator in JFK's
death rather joint v's was an accessory
after the fact
I think he did not plot to kill JFK but
I think it's he did act to protect those
who did he died in 1991 having never
been questioned by any JFK investigators
so as reporter my I try and develop kind
of empirical non conspiratorial
questions to clarify the JFK story and
the question is did Angleton Phillips
Johnny D's and these other CIA officers
run a psychological warfare operation
involving Lee Harvey Oswald targeting
the fair play for Cuba committee in the
fall of 1963 and did that operation go
terribly awry on November 22nd needless
to say the CIA does not want to talk
about this question they don't want to
answer it they don't they don't want to
deal with it in any way but over the
years they've been forced to and I can
say that I have forced them to talk a
little bit about this or at least
disclose some more information about it
eight years ago I sued the CIA for
records of George John Nene's covert act
he's the time of JFK's murder in the
course of the litigation
thanks to the expert legal work of Jim
Lazar the unsung hero of this entire
story
the CIA has been forced to acknowledge
the existence of 300 documents still
secret documents about Jo and edie's
many of which date back to the 1950s the
agency is still fighting to prevent
release of this antique material Agency
lawyers will be in federal court later
this year arguing that none of these
documents can be made public in any form
for reasons of Nationals
some people find that justification
ridiculous but I'm not one of them the
CIA says the Johnny D's story is very
sensitive and I believe them I think it
is very sensitive and I think that
they're justified in not wanting to
release it I think that that could do a
lot of damage to the CIA that is not the
only material that remained a secret the
National Archives retains at least 800
pages of material about David Phillips
in the JFK assassination records
collection in College Park Maryland the
CIA says that it will not release any of
this material until at least 2017 the
Phillips material according to the CIA
has been designated NBR MBR stands for
not believed relevant to the
assassination story that designation by
the way was made before it was revealed
that Phillips had organized the
assassination of general Schneider in
Chile in 1970 so the JFK Review Board
which requested the Phillips material
originally did not know that Phillips
was the organizer of political
assassinations when they decided that
this material was not relevant to the
assassination I'm not even sure that
anybody on the the JFK review board
actually even looked at this material
but in any case there's 800 pages it's
in the National Archives it has never
been made public similarly there's 200
pages of material about Burge O'Neill
that is held in the JFK assassination
records collection that has never been
made public I'm not sure that this
material has to do with the
assassination per se but the central
role of Burch O'Neill and the Special
Investigations Group the sig the single
office in collecting all information all
CIA information about Oswald before the
assassination is a central part of the
story so anything any information about
Burge O'Neill is in my view relevant to
the assassination
this material too has been designated as
in Br
I should say I think it's very unlikely
that the majorities the Philips were
that onio material contains a smoking
gun a proverbial smoking gun about the
JFK conspiracy but they might the
judgment that you know these files are
not relevant to the assassination does
not stand up to any scrutiny and I
should say that it's also possible that
these records exculpate David Phillips
and George Johnny D's and another CIA
officers from allegations that they were
involved the JFK conspiracy so if they
these files do contain exculpatory
information it's obviously in the
interest of the CIA to release them as
soon as possible and I hope that they
will where does that leave us as we
approach the 50th anniversary well first
of all the seven steps that I've
outlined here are hardly guaranteed to
work a half-century after the fact
the CIA shows no interest in folks
closures around the JFK story
they're extremely defensive I don't
think that that defensive Ness is
defensible but I do think that it's
understandable
because of what we now see in the
historical record there's no proof
beyond a reasonable doubt of a CIA
conspiracy in my view but I do think
that the preponderance of evidence
points to that possibility I suggest
that we look at JFK's death as a civil
rather than a criminal matter if we look
at it that way I think you can say that
James Angleton and other CIA officers
who were most knowledgeable about Oswald
before the assassination were arguably
responsible for JFK's wrongful death if
they did not conspire to manipulate
conspire with or manipulate Oswald they
certainly failed to appreciate the
threat to the president that was
gathering in Dallas
this is the intelligence failure the
intelligence failure over November 22nd
1963 that the CIA does not want to talk
about and does not care to exercise full
disclosure around but that is the story
that needs to come out on the 50th
anniversary of JFK's death not for the
sake of scapegoating the CIA or the
Pentagon but for the sake of the Kennedy
family and for the sake of the vast
majority of people who want the record
straight in the end I think the hard
part about the JFK story is not
understanding what happened
anybody can study the vast historical
record and come to a conclusion
convincing to themselves if not to
others what is hard about the JFK story
is getting the CIA to obey the JFK
assassination records Act of 1992 which
mandates the immediate and those that
was the word the will of Congress in
1992 the immediate disclosure of all JFK
records so here we are 20 years 19 years
later and the CIA is still not in
compliance with the law I've been
litigating with the CIA for eight years
around this question and I can only
conclude that the agency is beyond the
reach of the law at this point when it
comes to JFK records when President
Obama took office he issued a new
directive on on open government federal
agencies he said should not engage in
abstract and speculative threats to
justify the secrecy of government
records the agencies ignored this
directive when it comes to JFK records
after all
President Obama is merely the president
and they are the CIA and that's the
story on the 40th anniversary of JFK's
death the CIA's still not released all
of its records on the subject and that
is what we have two years to overcome
that's my view of the subject and I'd be
glad to take anybody's questions to talk
about it thank you for listening
hello
okay okay hi
thank you thank you
let me talk about hunt first hunt is
clearly a very knowledgeable person head
of the domestic contacts division in
1963 I think that it's very notable that
in the after hunt was arrested in the
Watergate affair and was facing the
prospect of going to jail the first
thing he did was published his book
about the Bay of Pigs and in the first
pages of that book the first thing that
he did was he talked about the Cuban
students who had identified Oswald as a
Cuban as an agent of Castro's as hunt
well knew those students had been
recruited by David Phillips as hunt well
knew they were being run by George Jo
and edie's in 1963 I believe that hunt
raised this issue right after his arrest
as a way of exercising leverage on the
CIA to show dick Helms who was the head
of the CIA at the time that he was
prepared to talk about the events that
led to Kennedy's assassination
and in that book hunt said that
basically the Kennedy was to blame for
his own assassination through his
cowardly behavior at the Bay of Pigs
hunts animus against JFK was obvious in
terms of evidence linking hunt to the
assassination I've never been
particularly persuaded by it I think
that the the the videos that he made at
the end of his life with his son st.
John Hunt which I've reviewed are
interesting they're very interesting I
don't think they're proof positive but
they do they are an admission against
interest hunt was a was a CIA loyalist
he was very conservative man he was very
sincere and his conservative beliefs he
was not one to traffic in a JFK
conspiracy theory implicating the CIA
idly
he wouldn't know he would not have done
that cynically because of his own
political beliefs so the fact that he
seems to indicate on those tapes some
kind of knowledge of what he called the
big event I think is very interesting
and worth noting I don't think that it
proves anything but I think the fact
that hunt talked at the end of his life
about the possibility that CIA people
had connived and Kennedy's death is an
important piece of evidence that can't
be wished away about David Morales I
think the evidence is a little bit less
strong it is noteworthy that he's you
know that he boasted of being involved
in the killing of Kennedy but a lot of
people are boasted about being involved
in the killing of Kennedy and that is
not proof positive of anything so that's
what I have to say about those two men
well first of all hello to Malcolm
Malcolm is one of the great researchers
in this field and has been an
immeasurable help to me that is news to
me that somebody from the CIA is saying
that but that doesn't surprise me I've
always thought that they're going to
take they would make every effort to
keep this material out of the out of the
public view it's it's clear from some
external markings that some portion of
those of the David Phillips material
concerns the assassination in Chile and
the and the preparations around that and
the CIA is going to be loath to disclose
how its people organized an
assassination that does not that does
not surprise me that said I think that
the only way to overcome the CIA is
secrecy in this matter is in the court
of public opinion the the legal courts
are not going to overrule the CIA and I
don't know that the Congress is going to
do it but I think that public pressure
might be able to embarrass them but as I
said this is a very difficult task the
hard thing is not to know what happened
the hard thing is to get the records
you
on the first point I see no evidence
connecting Johnson to the assassination
doesn't strike me as very plausible um
so that's all I can say about that that
Johnson thought that the CIA was
involved in the assassination for
Kennedy I find that quite plausible I'd
like to know more about the sourcing of
those two statements I've heard that it
sounds quite plausible to me
Johnson clearly had a conspiratorial
interpretation of the assassination he
had it from the day it happened until
the day he died he had a variety of he
expressed a variety of conspiracy
theories to people over the years so
exactly what he thought is well it
changed over time he had he had
different theories and he didn't he did
not know so but yeah I find that I find
that very plausible and I find that that
that also tends to support the thesis
that I've been offering here that
responsibility lay with CIA officers it
doesn't surprise me that Lyndon Johnson
believed that
yeah very good question and there is the
Northwoods planning was assigned to a
psychological operations group an
interagency committee David Phillips was
on that committee and there's
indications some indication from the
records that he attended at least one
meeting there's also some indication
that colleagues of George Joe enemies
worked on that committee as well so that
I think is the thing that in my recent
research I've been most interested in is
who was aware of the Northwoods concept
if somebody borrowed the Northwoods
concept of a provocative crime to be
blamed on Cuba and and perpetrated that
in Dallas is that plausible and the you
know the fact that that there's
connections between the psychological
operations committee that did the
Northwoods planning and Phillips and
Joann V's I think is extremely is very
noteworthy
thank you thank you thank you all for
having me and thank you for listening
and like I said I'm available on
Facebook I'm glad to communicate with
any researchers on this who have serious
thoughts and I continue to you know to
do my research and to think that we can
make some progress and understand what
happened so I look forward to talking
with any and all of you about that thank
you